[Security] `document.domain` is becoming immutable #1828 (#1896)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/blog/immutable-document-domain/index.md

---
layout: 'layouts/blog-post.njk'

> title: "`document.domain` is becoming immutable"

Reviewer: Any ideas for a more descriptive title? Ideally, it would incorporate what `document.domain` enables--or rather what's becoming unavailable with this change. From what I gather, `document.domain` allowed same-origin policy relaxation [for specific use cases?], which will no longer be possible.

Author: How about "Relaxing same-origin policy by modifying `document.domain` will be disabled in Chrome"?

Author: cc: @lutzvahl

Reviewer: Exactly what I was looking for! Here's the same thing reworded to match Google styleguide rules: "Chrome [version number] disables modifying `document.domain` to relax the same-origin policy".

description: >
  Websites will be unable to set `document.domain` on Chrome starting in version 101. If your website relies on setting `document.domain`, your action is required.
subhead: >
  Beginning with Chrome version 101, websites will be unable to set `document.domain`.
date: 2022-01-06
authors:
  - agektmr
tags:
  - security
hero: 'image/YLflGBAPWecgtKJLqCJHSzHqe2J2/grGMzuhOjsGhN150dONe.jpg'
alt: >
  A dog in disguise.
---

> **If your website relies on relaxing the same-origin policy via `document.domain`,

Reviewer: @heyawhite Switch formatting to an appropriate banner component https://web.dev/handbook/web-dev-components/#banners

Reviewer 2: See https://github.com/GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com/pull/1896#discussion_r778761636

your action is required.**

> 

Reviewer: Add a quick definition of what `document.domain` does and link to MDN docs at the first mention.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

[`document.domain`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document/domain)
was designed to get or set the origin's hostname.

```

Reviewer 2: Two things:
- I think it's useful to define what it was designed to do, rather than what it actively does because what it does is changing.
- I initially thought they `key-term` aside would be appropriate, but I think that would draw attention away from the warning, so just having the definition means it may make sense to move this sentence to after the first sentence of the next paragraph
   > Beginning with Chrome version 101, websites will be unable to set [`document.domain`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document/domain). `document.domain` was designed to get or set the origin's hostname. Websites will need to use alternative approaches such as `postMessage()` or Channel Messaging API to communicate cross-origin.
   > 
   > If a website relies on same-origin policy relaxation via `document.domain` to function correctly, the site will need to send an `Origin-Agent-Cluster: ?0` header along with all documents that require that behavior (note that `document.domain` has no effect if only one document sets it).

Reviewer: Yep, that works great, you got this under control! :)

Beginning with Chrome version 101, websites will be unable to set
`document.domain`. Websites will need to use alternative approaches such as
`postMessage()` or Channel Messaging API to communicate cross-origin. If a
website relies on same-origin policy relaxation via `document.domain` to

> function correctly, it will need to send an `Origin-Agent-Cluster: ?0` header

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
function correctly, the site will need to send an `Origin-Agent-Cluster: ?0` header
```

along with all documents that require that behavior (note that `document.domain`
has no effect if only one document sets it).

## Why make `document.domain` immutable?

Many websites set `document.domain` to allow communication between [same-site
but cross-origin](https://web.dev/same-site-same-origin/) pages. 

{% Aside 'key-term' %}

Sites which have the same
[eTLD+1](https://web.dev/same-site-same-origin/#:~:text=the%20whole%20site%20name%20is%20known%20as%20the%20etld%2B1)

> but are different subdomains are considered "same-site but cross-origin".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but different subdomains are considered "same-site but cross-origin".
```

{% endAside %}

Here's how it's used:

Let's say a page on `https://parent.example.com` embeds an iframe page from
`https://video.example.com`. These pages have the same eTLD+1 (`example.com`)

> with different subdomains. By setting both pages' `document.domain` to
> `'example.com'`, the two origins can be treated as if they are the same-origin
> by the browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with different subdomains. When both pages' `document.domain` is set to
`'example.com'`, the browser treats the two origins as if they are same-origin.
```

> On `https://parent.example.com`:

Reviewer: It would be good to spell out what the code snippets are demonstrating. Non-blocking comment, but it's a good practice. Even if the code seems simple, you're giving readers a heads up on what comes next.

Author: I believe the previous paragraph and the inline comments do that job.

Reviewer 2: I think it could be cleaned up a little further. Added clearer code comments and confirmed purpose beforehand

```js
console.log(document.domain); // "parent.example.com"
document.domain = 'example.com';
console.log(document.domain); // "example.com"
```

On `https://video.example.com`:

```js
console.log(document.domain); // "video.example.com"
document.domain = 'example.com';
console.log(document.domain); // "example.com"
```

On `https://parent.example.com`, do a cross origin DOM manipulation against
`https://video.example.com`.

Websites set `document.domain` to make it possible for same-site documents to
communicate more easily. Because this change [relaxes the same-origin
policy](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/origin.html#relaxing-the-same-origin-restriction),
the parent page will be able to access the iframe's document and traverse the
DOM tree, and vice versa.

> At a glance, this is a convenient technique, but this actually introduces a
> security risk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a convenient technique, however it introduces a
security risk.
```

### Security concerns with `document.domain`

> Security concerns have led to the spec for `document.domain` to [warn users to
> avoid
> usage](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/origin.html#relaxing-the-same-origin-restriction).
> The [current discussion with other browser
> vendors](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/564) is moving toward
> the same direction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Security concerns around `document.domain` have led to a change in the [specification that warns users to
avoid
using it](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/origin.html#relaxing-the-same-origin-restriction).
The [current discussion with other browser
vendors](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/564) is moving in
the same direction.
```

Reviewer: Editing tip: "spec" is basically slang, so always use "specification" in public communications.

> For example, if a hosting service provides different subdomains per user, an
> attacker can set `document.domain` to pretend as if they are the same-origin
> with another user's page. Further, an attacker can host a website under a shared
> hosting service, which serves through the same IP address with different port
> numbers, the attacker can pretend to be on the same-site-but-same-origin as
> yours. This is possible because `document.domain` ignores the port number part
> of the domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if a hosting service provides different subdomains per user, an
attacker can set `document.domain` to pretend they are the same-origin
as another user's page. Further, an attacker can host a website under a shared
hosting service, which serves sites through the same IP address with different port
numbers. In that case, the attacker can pretend to be on the same-site-but-same-origin as
yours. This is possible because `document.domain` ignores the port number part
of the domain.
```

To learn more about the security implications of setting `document.domain`, read
["Document.domain" page on
MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Document/domain#setter).

Chrome will start displaying a warning in DevTools Console as soon as

> `document.domain` is set starting Chrome 98. Chrome is planning to  make

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`document.domain` is set starting from Chrome 98. Chrome is planning to  make
```

> `document.domain` immutable starting Chrome 101.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`document.domain` immutable starting from Chrome 101.
```

> ## Alternative cross-domain communication

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Alternative cross-domain communication

At this time, you have two options to replace `document.domain` for your website.
```

Reviewer 2: Something to make this clearer that these are the code update suggestions.

### Use `postMessage()` or Channel Messaging API

> In most use cases, `document.domain` can be replaced by a cross-origin
> [`postMessage()`
> ](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Window/postMessage) or [Channel
> Messaging
> API](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Channel_Messaging_API).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In most use cases, cross-origin
[`postMessage()`
](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Window/postMessage) or [Channel
Messaging
API](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Channel_Messaging_API) can replace `document.domain`.
```

Reviewer: This is just a suggestion in line with the evergreen advice of avoiding passive voice whenever possible.

> On `https://parent.example.com`:

Reviewer: Same as above, spell out what does the following code snippet demonstrate.

Author: Added an explanation.

Reviewer 2: These new code comments do this request justice

```js
// Send a message to https://video.example.com
iframe.postMessage('Request DOM manipulation', 'https://video.example.com');

// Receive messages
iframe.addEventListener('message', (event) => {
  // Reject all messages except ones from https://video.example.com
  if (event.origin !== 'https://video.example.com') return;

  // Filter success messages
  if (event.data === 'succeeded') {
    // DOM manipulation is succeeded
  }
});
```

On `https://video.example.com`:

```js
// Receive messages
window.addEventListener('message', (event) => {
  // Reject all messages except ones from https://parent.example.com
  if (event.origin !== 'https://parent.example.com') return;

  // Do a DOM manipulation on https://video.example.com.

  // Send a success message to https://parent.example.com
  event.source.postMessage('succeeded', event.origin);
});
```

> Try it and see if it works. If you have specific requirements that won't work
> with `postMessage()` or Channel Messaging API, please let us know on [Twitter
> via @ChromiumDev](https://twitter.com/ChromiumDev) or ask on Stack Overflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Try it and see how it works. If you have specific requirements that won't work
with `postMessage()` or Channel Messaging API, let us know on [Twitter
via @ChromiumDev](https://twitter.com/ChromiumDev) or ask on Stack Overflow.
```

Reviewer: We have a linter rule that flags using "please", it's not a **hard rule**, but it's best to avoid it. No need to plead with our readers, the writing is already polite enough.

Reviewer: Do we have a dedicated Stack Overflow tag, or people on Stack Overflow rotation? (The WebVitals team has this.) If not, I'd avoid pointing our readers to just ask questions on the internet, we should focus on how we can be at their service. 

cc @agektmr

Author: I'd watch a tag via email notification. We can suggest to add `document.domain` tag. cc: @lutzvahl

### Send `Origin-Agent-Cluster: ?0` header to continue using `document.domain`

> If you have strong reasons to continue setting `document.domain`, you can do so
> by sending `Origin-Agent-Cluster: ?0` response header along with the target
> document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have strong reasons to continue setting `document.domain`, you can send `Origin-Agent-Cluster: ?0` response header along with the target
document.
```

Reviewer: Again, just edit out passive voice where possible.

```http
Origin-Agent-Cluster: ?0
```

`Origin-Agent-Cluster` header instructs the browser whether the document should
be handled by the origin-keyed agent cluster or not. To learn more about Origin
Agent Cluster, read [Requesting performance isolation with the
Origin-Agent-Cluster header](https://web.dev/origin-agent-cluster/).

> By sending this header, the document can continue setting `document.domain` even

Reviewer: An opportunity for a writing exercise if there's time. Passive voice works okay here, it can stay as is, just pointing it out so you can catch these things earlier going forward.

Author: How is this passive? Can you show me an example?

Reviewer: Actually, I don't think this is passive voice, my bad. Thanks for calling it out! Maybe @heyawhite can double check my grammar dilemma? 

There's still room for improvement of the sentence flow though, but I was just leaving this feedback for @heyawhite to take into consideration as she goes about technical editing in the future.

Reviewer 2: I updated this copy a bit. I agree it's not passive, but could be _more_ active, if that makes sense.

> When you send this header, the document can continue to set `document.domain` even
after it becomes immutable by default.

after it becomes immutable by default.

> ## Timeline

Reviewer: Another non-blocking comment: as a general rule, try to highlight the timelines and browser compatibility early in the document. I'll find you some examples of previously published posts that follow this rule.

In this case, consider moving the timeline to the top of the document, or close to the top, whatever works.

The browser compatibility can stay as is, since it's really more of a comment on intentions.

Chrome will eventually make `document.domain` immutable. Here's the current
timeline:

> * **Chrome 98:** Usage of `document.domain` displays a warning message in
>   DevTools Console. Also, `Origin-Agent-Cluster` header is available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Chrome 98:** When using `document.domain`, DevTools Console displays a warning message. `Origin-Agent-Cluster` header is available.
```

> * **Chrome 99:** Enterprise policy is in place to extend behavior.

Reviewer: @heyawhite This could use some clarifying. In general, the enterprise policy extends the availability of a feature (in this case the previous `document.domain` behavior) to enterprise users who need to set up the policy. 

Usually it's a bypass that's left in place, but sometimes enterprise polices gets phased out too. Do you know what's the case here and if we should give readers more info about the policy? cc @agektmr

* **Chrome 101:** `document.domain` is immutable.

## Browser compatibility

> * [In the Origin
>   spec](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/origin.html#:~:text=Because%20of%20these%20security%20pitfalls%2C%20this%20feature%20is%20in%20the%20process%20of%20being%20removed%20from%20the%20web%20platform),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [In the Origin
  specification](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/origin.html#:~:text=Because%20of%20these%20security%20pitfalls%2C%20this%20feature%20is%20in%20the%20process%20of%20being%20removed%20from%20the%20web%20platform),
```

>   it's clearly stated that the feature should be removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  states that the feature should be removed.
```

Reviewer: Easy passive voice edit.

* [WebKit indicated that they are moderately positive about deprecating
  `document.domain`
  setter](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/564#issuecomment-768450217).

## Resources

* [Document.domain - Web APIs |
  MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Document/domain)

> * [mikewest/deprecating-document-domain: `document.domain` intentionally weakens

Reviewer: Is this supposed to be in the doc? If yes, definitely edit the wording to be more clear and less casual.

  the only security boundary we have. Perhaps we can dump
  it?](https://github.com/mikewest/deprecating-document-domain/)
* [Deprecating `document.domain`. · Issue #564 ·
  w3ctag/design-reviews](https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/564)

> Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/@braydona?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Braydon Anderson</a> on <a href="https://unsplash.com/?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Unsplash</a>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/@braydona">Braydon Anderson</a> on <a href="https://unsplash.com/">Unsplash</a>
```
